Welcome all.
So today we're going to begin a chapter on services so services in angular are basically some sort of
a logical layer that we in our case basically showed use for communication with the server.
They contain a logic and we make them as reusable as possible.
We need to we also use them for manipulation for any sort of manipulation with data.
So we create services and then those services are utilized by other by basically by by basically components
by classes by whatever fragments from them are utilized and used to manipulate the data and to communicate
with the server and they're used for some other things as well in general.
So can we get up on the net but like the definitions that I've found I really think that there are inappropriate
for anyone who is in the beginning stages.
Rather it's that we can look at them like this in a simpler way.
And if you want you can just type in services angular Yes you don't need to look up services dangler
to just type in angular japes services.
And you will get the official definition and the documentation.
Although as I said I find it a little bit complex anyway so I try to simplify it as much as I could
anyway so the thing that we're going to need to do is right click on app and we're going to go ahead.
Sorry.
We're going to go ahead and right click on account and we're going to go ahead and say new.
Right click on account not an app.
And here we're going to create a new file which will be ups going to go ahead and click on your file
again and this will be a code dot services Dot.
Yes.
So press enter and this is an empty file for the time being I have the code here and notepad does a
horrendous job.
I'm just going to go ahead and copy this and I'm going to delete this notepad there's a horrendous job
with copy paste operations like when you copy something into Notepad it's all in a single line which
is horrible.
Can't believe they can make a proper text editor anyway.
So you're going to have this code of course.
I strongly advise you to actually type it in yourselves.
I'm only copying it for the convenience sake because it is much easier to just talk about the code as
opposed to write and talk about the code at the same time.
I mean at a certain point of time this code had to be written it didn't write itself.
So police even though you have the code try to rewrite it yourselves anyway.
So let's go ahead and begin from the top.
You have this it says injectable for God's sakes for rejecting.
Well injectable is basically a decorator which enables us to inject a class.
What does this mean inject class.
Well it means that other classes just specify that they will use certain services and angular takes
care of the way that they are passed to those classes.
So classes they specify that they will use services and then angular takes care of the way that those
services are basically passed to those classes that are passed in a proper way.
But we will talk about this a little bit more later on.
I just wanted to mention that here.
That is what injectable means.
So once again
classes specify that they will use certain services so you have a class and that class specifies hey
I want to use the service and then Engler takes care of the journey takes care of the way that those
services are passed to those classes.
And that is basically what it means to make a class injectable.
OK.
So let's go into hopefully the good here.
I hope that I did just that explanation.
That's like my simplified version of things.
If you want the official definition of an injectable decorator go onto the net and type in angular gyrus
injectable decorator and you will get some extensive documentation there which you can feel which of
course you can read through.
OK.
So next up this import account you know this like from a kind of model.
We did that before.
Anyway here we have our first example of at injectable decorator so we can place this decorated before
before the class.
This is the syntax that you need to follow it needs to be placed before the class.
And once this class once this and the creator is placed there then we are effectively making this class
injectable.
So this refers to this class.
And if you placed another class down below it would not be referring to that class at all.
If you place that low class above it wouldn't be referring to that class either.
It just refers to a class directly below it.
Anyway this is something this array we're basically utilizing for the time being to basically act as
our temporary database.
But don't worry we will get to the portion where we will actually have a date where we will have an
actual database.
But I didn't want to like burden Nouba debt straightaway.
So we're just using this as some sort of a simulation but we'll get to the point where we'll have an
actual database.
Now this public method here this is a private one and this is not going to get access to outside of
this.
And do you have export class account services.
It's pretty much all the functionalities of it are known to you.
We're just moving something from one place to the other.
Basically you notice the Re.
And to get to or public method get all it just returns all the accounts that are within this array.
So that's all that it is doing nothing else.
Then you have the next ID as before you have public create you have public remove all of these.
I have explained extensively and we have went over them anyway.
The next thing that you will need to do is modify app component TS file.
So this one I'm just going to go ahead and control it and delete everything in sight and then I'm going
to go ahead and copy the one from Pad fully it's going to keep you in the proper way.
OK.
Sort of the end.
But there was a school like modification that I need to create here.
Account Services.
There seems to be a problem.
They all just go out and save it and save this one as well.
Come on service is OK.
There we go.
So just a little bit of mis spelling on my end.
Hate this file.
You don't need to write anything for the time being.
We're going to get to this file in the follow up to Tauriel.
And now explain pretty much one vine at a time.
And what on earth is it that happened here.
Because as you can see we've pooled certain things from the app component class and they have been quite
literally placed here.
Indy accounts service class which has also been exported so it can be used elsewhere.
We're just going to go over these things.
But there is very little that is new here.
We've just reformatted this in preparation to what is to come because we're enabling services.
We're going to start utilizing services we will use them for the store the logic of our application
will use services basically to store the logic of our application.
And it's again where again we are dealing with the separation of the code.
So certain things will be performed by certain certain things will be performed by certain components.
But now we are just transferring the logic of the entire application into the services files.
OK.
So we're going to bid you farewell here and hope to see you in the fall of Tauriel.